This is a collection of perl scripts for downloading location data,
geotagging photos, and creating a KML file documenting it along with
Twitter and other messages displayed along the path at the location it
was made.  This KML file can then be overlayed on Google Maps or Google
Earth.

The latest version of photocatalog is available at:
http://code.google.com/p/photocatalog/

This files are listed roughly in order of importance.

install.pl - Installer.  See INSTALL for usage.

updatelocation.pl - This is the most important script as it pulls
location data from InstaMapper and updates the path in the KML file.

gpx.pl - This reads a GPX file and converts it into an InstaMapper
compatible CSV file which can be read by updatelocation.pl.

lock-kml.pl - Locks the KML file for 10 minutes.  Useful when hand
editing the KML file to prevent cron jobs from interfering.

rss.pl - This reads a RSS feed such as Twitter and posts the comments in
the KML file based on location data retrieved by updatelocation.pl.

scan.pl - Scans a directory for photos and updates KML with them.

email.pl - Received email and extracts photos and descriptions from
them.

mobile.pl - This creates a mobile version of the KML file.

timediff.pl - Scans CSV file for large gaps in updates and reports them.

geotag.pl - (Not ready yet.)

twitter.pl - (Not ready yet.)

upload.pl - (Not ready yet.)



TIPS

Time zones can be a tricky business, especially when traveling between
them.  When using this software to geotag photos later, it's important
to have the right timestamps on them so they can be located using your
GPS data.  This software attempts to use UTC time when available and
local time otherwise.  Most cameras store a timestamp in the photos they
take, however, there is no time zone information in that information and
it will be assumed that it is the local time zone.  The FAT filesystem
that cameras often use to store photos also store a modification date
that can be used, but again, it is in local time.  It's important to
keep your camera set to the same time zone as the computer running
photocatalog and not change it while you are traveling.  The camera
should also be kept up to date with any Daylight Saving Time (DST)
changes in your computer's time zone.  Email, on the other hand, does
store a time zone offset in it's date which this software can convert
to UTC correctly and so, should not be affected by the local time zone
of the device.  The other important source of time stamps to deal with
is GPS data.  InstaMapper uses UTC for all it's data, but not all GPS
devices may be aware of their time zone when creating a GPX file.  If
you plan to load in any GPX files, it's good to make sure they are uses
time stamps aware of UTC; the time stamp will end in a Z or [+-]XXXX
showing the UTC offset.  If it does not, you will need to keep the GPS
in the same local time as the computer and keep up with DST changes.
